---
layout: post
title: One Beer
category: 
---

Not even. Maybe like three sips in. I sit down to watch another episode of *Once Upon a Time* and suddenly I can't anymore. I can't just sit here. I need to fix my room.

I heft my futon into couch position, empty my trash, pick up my dirty clothes, and then fold and put away my clean clothes. I pull out the four open suitcases stacked at the entrance of my closet and start sorting into clothes-for-fall and clothes-I'm-not-going-to-wear-any-time-soon. I think about whether it'd be a good idea to go to NYC with Lisa for New Years.

I fold my sweaters and hang my office clothes and put my violin away and consider getting a coat rack so I can plan outfits better.

The beer makes me warm. I switch on my small fan and chug some more beer. It doesn't help with the thirst.

I lift my small suitcase of clothes-I-probably-don't-need-to-keep onto the top shelf of my closet. Still too hot. I turn on my ceiling fan and head to the kitchen. I fill my water bottle halfway, chug it, and then fill it up completely.

I move my regular office chair to my former violin space and sort through the clothes hanging over it. Well, these don't need to go anywhere right now.

Then I sit down to catch my breath. Why am I so out of shape? I'm not getting any younger, I guess.

I wonder what it was about the beer that finally got me off my ass. Maybe because I'm finally not freezing my ass off? Nah, that's too simple.

I always feel like running around when I drink. Alcohol gives me energy, I guess. I feel like running and dancing and singing and jumping and climbing. I feel more alive? That's too cliche.

Maybe I'm reading too much into the beer. Maybe it was just time for me to get up? I shouldn't wait until I get the urge though. I gotta make the urge.