---
layout: post
title: Better
category:
---
I'm doing better this week. It's hard to pinpoint why.

I saw Mike on Saturday. He's my computer science tutor. We met on OkCupid, when I wasn't looking for a tutor. Yep.

He's cute but I like him better as a friend. And he's a really frickin good teacher. I feel like he can explain things in a way that's useful, and it saves me a lot of time and stress. Once I get how something works I'll remember it and find ways to apply it to other situations. But I hate having to feel like an idiot for hours when I'm Googling everywhere to figure out how to get my IDE to work right.

It's not even that I don't like searching for answers. I do, I enjoy research. But for someone who has so little confidence in her coding abilities, a little more hand-holding would be welcome. It's like asking a kid to fix his bike chain before teaching him how to ride. Until you develop a joy in the activity itself, attempting maintainence on the tools is discouraging.

So I think after seeing Mike I felt slightly more confident in my ability to read code and figure out what's going on. I can't bring myself to code at home though. Almost. Not quite. I need to get other parts of my life together first. Or is that just an excuse?

---

I did move all my furniture around on Sunday. I think that's another thing that helped me. My room feels more open now and I can actually sit up straight at my desk. It's more comfortable and I might even type faster now. Now my desk feels welcoming, and my futon nook feels like an escape. I'm considering buying some stretchy jersey fabric and hanging it from my loft bed to make my futon nook a little more cozy. Close myself off from the world when I need a place to hide. I'm worried it'll make my room feel too small though.

The past few days I've been doing the guided meditation lessons on Calm.com's iOS app. That's one of my pre-New Year's pre-Resolutions, I guess. I made a chart to mark every day that I use it. Maybe just having that time to relax and breathe and build a connection to my body will make an impact on my ability to focus. Or at least it'll stop me from being swallowed by the deadness inside.

Unfortunately I still haven't been eating well or exercising. I did yoga on Monday and that was nice, and I did some reading on the stationary bike on Wednesday. That's really nothing though. I've gained weight since my birthday. It's so stupid because I know how much exercise helps my brain and my overall feelings.

Bikram would be so good for me. But I'm scared. But if I started going often enough I'll lose the weight and my body will feel better.

---

Last Friday I felt so bad that it was hard to walk, hard to breathe. I'm glad I'm not that bad today. I was crying before I went into work that day. I couldn't talk like a normal person. Luckily work is a good distraction from emotional pain.

So many stupid fears. I get stopped too easily. The first habit is supposed to deal with that. Being proactive. Doing what you say you're gonna do when you say you're gonna do it.

I've given up on being autonomous at least. Until I can get over myself enough to build some personal projects I'm not going to get hired. Until I'm hired and making a steady income I'm not going to be able to support myself. Until I can support myself I'm not going to feel confident.

Maybe that's why I've been eating so much. What's the point in taking care of myself and being attractive when it's clear that I can't take care of myself and I'm already unattractive? I live with my parents. I'm an adult child. I'm reaching this line of thought where I could start spiraling into "I already suck, what's the point?" I mean, I was there just last week. I'm not getting any younger.

Anyway I'm rambling.