---
layout: post
title: Hope
---
I wanted to read at the gym last night so I charged my tablet at work. And forgot it there. I had a lot of energy last night so I wasn't going to fall asleep without something to read.

Most of the books I haven't gotten rid of are textbooks at this point. Not a lot that I can crack open and scan through. I mean I guess my Japanese textbook would konk me out, but I wanted a different kind of stimulation.

I spotted Kouzes and Posner's *The Leadership Challenge*, the textbook from ED173 at UCSB, taught by Professor Lubach (at least it was when I was there). It's a class in the education department to teach leadership skills. 

I remember feeling so conflicted about that class at the time. I hated leading, putting myself out there. I felt safe in my corner, participating only in classroom contexts and hiding behind the shield of the group in every other situation.

I do have Professor Lubach to thank for introducing me to urban planning. Smart urban design always be a passion of mine. Definitely glad I didn't go to grad school for it, though.

---

That reminds me. I hate forced group work. And I kind of hate group work in general. I love reading articles now that talk about how important solo time for [deliberate practice](http://www.davidsongifted.org/db/Articles_id_10448.aspx) is for developing expertise. The virtuosos and geniuses of the world spend more time on solo practice than everyone else, that's what makes them superior. (More about the importance of [solo concentration](http://hbswk.hbs.edu/archive/4991.html) and [office design](http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/FieldGuidetoDevelopers.html)  for knowledge workers.)

But if I'm ever going to accomplish anything in this life, well, I'm going to have to work with others. And not in the we-do-our-own-thing-but-happen-to-be-in-the-same-room kind of working with others. I'm awesome at that.

No. I need to cooperate. Collaborate. Back and forth. Listen and contribute. Projects.

Gah I hate it. Only child, latchkey kid, daughter of a man who started his own business so he'd never have to work with people again. I can't think with people. I'm most comfortable alone, in silence.

---

Anyway.

My fascination with self-help and self-improvement topics goes back a long way. I remember reading *Don't Sweat the Small Stuff* in high school and getting a lot out of it. I was a really positive person back then, with a lot of hope for my future, and full of love for my many friends. I was also in love with the violin. So sheltered.

If I were to admit to having any regrets in my life, it would be having my heart broken multiple times during my first month of college. I lost friends, I lost the violin, my world came crashing down. I got off on the wrong foot, to say the least. Not a fan of birthdays anymore.

My gaping hole needed filling. I distanced myself from my college peers and found several outlets for my loneliness and frustration. Dove into *The Greatest Salesman in the World*, *How to Win Friends and Influence People*, *The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People* (the last of which I didn't appreciate until years later). Attended seminars and workshops. It was my escape from my present reality: being painfully alone at probably the most social school in California.

Then I met a guy. Then I went to France. Then, depression. Old news.

---

I feel like 16 was my last really good year. 21 was fun too. But I feel like I'm getting further and further away from that naive, positive, content person I was in high school. And I wasn't really ok at 16 either. But at least I had friends.

That's probably the key. Friends. I lost the majority of my closest friends between age 18 and age 20, without making many significant new ones.

It's hard to feel love anymore. I love the friends I have, but 

And without love, how can I feel hope? I get trapped in my echo-chamber of a brain. With each bouncing thought my outlook gets more negative.

I used to feel so much love. I want to love, I think. Not romantic love. Just love of life.

When I was straight-edge in high school I used to say that I didn't need drugs, I'm high on life. I used to laugh every day with my friends. I still laugh, and I often sing, but I don't feel high on life.

Maybe it was a sugar high.

---

The reason why I picked *The Leadership Challenge* to lull me to sleep last night was because self-improvement *is* leadership. It's a two-way street. **I need to lead myself in order to ever become a leader of others, and I need to have the hope of causing some sort of positive impact in the world to care enough about myself to make my life better.**

That's the real point here.

The preface of the book gives examples of opportunities to make a difference. I'll list the ones that stood out to me.

* Set a positive example of what honesty and ethics mean in daily life
* Find a better balance in our always-on, 24/7/365 lives
* Tap the wealth of scientific knowledge to create a safer and more sustainable world
* Rebuild a sense of community and increase understanding among diverse peoples
* Turn information into knowledge and improve the collective standard of living
* Bring peace to a world tired of war
* Restore hope and create a deeper sense of meaning in our lives

The book asks, what is the legacy I want to leave? It echoes habit number two in *7 Habits*: begin with the end in mind. What kind of person do I want to be? And then, what would that person do in this situation?

I'm going to think for a while.