---
layout: post
title: Lately
category: musings
---

Lately I've been really off. At least, that's my euphemism for it.

I go between apathy and wanting to melt into the floor. If I took better care of myself, I'd feel better, sure. But what's the point of taking care of myself if I don't care *about* myself?

Basically the only time I feel like I have purpose is when I'm at work. That's not good. I'm a server, but I've been thinking I'd make a great servant. I exist solely for the benefit of others.

Obviously to make a career for myself I need to find a way to benefit others with my skills or other attributes in exchange for income.

Career. . .

## Conflict

I'm so capable. I'm so smart. I keep saying that because otherwise I sink into mediocrity and then I really have no reason to exist.

I can become an effective, contributing member of society. It's totally possible. Right now I'm feeling almost normal. That's why now's the best time to write this. Record my recent experiences while I can, for later analysis. I guess.

When I'm down I feel so dead inside. My self-preservation instinct fades away and the past few days I've been having, um, ideation. Just imagining different options. To end things. It's not serious, but I'm aware that it's not a helpful direction for my thoughts.

I'd like to avoid bringing myself back to that place, but I also want to write this accurately.

It's like a knot in my stomach. The entire day. Yesterday was probably because I had caffeine without taking L-Theanine, which balances the effects of caffeine to reduce anxiety. I took it today and while I got overwhelmed, the knot wasn't there.

I can't bring myself to care about anything. Sometimes I get sad, and cry. Most of the time I feel lonely and numb. I feel trapped. I can't bring myself to care about the future. 

Yesterday especially I just wanted to melt into the floor. 

People wouldn't forget about me. People care about me. And I'm still normal the majority of the time, when others are around.

I'm not a waste of life. But I feel like one. People are always so nice to me and I don't deserve it. I don't deserve anything.

Logically I know that I deserve to be treated well, I guess. Maybe "deserve" isn't the right word. I used to feel like my life had direction. Now I feel like everything I do is pointless and no matter how much good I do in this world it'll make no difference. 

I've already been like this on and off for four years. When is it going to get so bad again that I can't function? I've already dropped out of adult society. Even if I get a life, a career, how long will it be before I have to check out again? It's only a matter of time before I drop the ball. How can I ever let people depend on me? How can I ever get anywhere without letting people depend on me?

Right now, I can't bring myself to do stuff that I know I'm totally capable of doing. Do I just need encouragement? Do I need a babysitter? 

## Fortune

I'm so fortunate to live the life I live. I don't want to seem completely ungrateful, although I can be sometimes. I have two parents who love me and who go out of their way to show they care about me. I have a safe home to sleep in. I have tons of encouragement to set goals and follow my dreams. I have amazing friends who care about me and listen to me complain all the time. I have a million opportunities to make something of myself.

Despite all of this I'm still depressed.

If I, in my cushy situation, can't contribute anything positive to this God-forsaken world, what about all the people who are worse off than me?

It's like I'm being swallowed by evil. Darkness. Everything I hoped for is melting away. That's why I want to melt away. I'm tired of moping, but I don't have energy to do anything useful. 

Occasionally I'll look up ways to motivate myself but I'm not sure extrinsic motivation works in these circumstances. I want to make a habit of taking care of myself, then everything else will fall into place.

Existence is a bit much sometimes.



