---
layout: post
title: Hustling
category: career
---

Getting reacquainted with my tablet. Currently writing this on [JotterPad](). I tried Draft but JotterPad has better Dropbox integration and a much better UI. It's not as great as typing on my laptop, but I can fall asleep on it without feeling as bad. $150 tablet vs. $XX00 MacBook. Yep.

Anyway, I'd like to discuss a few realizations I had about how to approach career development from now on. 

I went to a startup hiring event with Misha on Friday. It was definitely eye-opening. 

The talks were fine. Having read just about every non-technical blog post about the software industry there wasn't much in the talks that stood out as new to me. Check out my [best of articles list]() for some killer reading. 

I was definitely glad to hear actual successful people encouraging junior developers to give talks and companies to diversify their workforce because it's just the right thing to do (also cause profit). You read so many horror stories about the tech field but I feel like everyone I've encountered so far has been incredibly awesome and encouraging.

Still, these topics felt a bit played out as someone who pores over books about leadership and socioeconomic issues.

Nah, what surprised me was how easy it was for me to fit in at an event like this. I guess I hate mingling less than I thought.

Sure, I was a bit awkward. I didn't have my elevator pitch ready and I still had trouble inserting myself into conversations. But once I started talking to people, they liked me. It was great. I even made a new friend, Jessica. She's awesome.

She actually invited me to go to another event today---a hackathon at the LA Library downtown. I signed up with the intent to observe and be inspired, mostly because I hate formal competitions. I'm sure it would have been fun. I'm a flake. I wanted a break from driving. 

Anyway, on Friday people were chill. It's actually fun because you don't know anybody so if you make a fool of yourself you'll never have to see them again. And if you're awesome you just get a huge confidence boost! 

I mostly handed out my resume to a few people who said they might be expanding and hiring junior devs, but I realized if I want to go to events like this in the future I might want to switch to business cards. 

I know what you're thinking: "What are you, a salesperson?" Business cards are for people with job titles and sleazy business people. 

No, I won't hand them out like candy. They're for if I meet someone cool at an event, especially one after work when I probably won't be sporting my resume, and I want them to have something to remember me. LinkedIn is becoming weirdly tacky. It's a useful tool but I don't want to spend more time there than I have to. 

My business card will be like a souvenir after getting to know me a little.

Plus after talking to founders, recruiters, and CTOs for several hours, I started to whittle down my talking points. This is especially important because when you hand someone a resume they never, ever read the contents. As a rule. 

I have two categories: important stuff you should know to hire me, and why I'm totally awesome. 

###Important stuff you should know to hire me

- Working on my B.S. in computer science
- Already have my B.A. in lingustics from UCSB
- Currently a summer intern at the Aerospace Corporation
- This is my second internship
- Worked in Ruby, Python, Java, various libraries
- Learning Rails, Angular JS, Node.js
- I want to work. I'm hoping for something full time starting in September 

###Why I'm totally awesome

- I speak French, Japanese, and a little Spanish 
- I studied abroad in Bordeaux 
- I taught English and worked as a craft beer bartender in Tokyo
- I love craft beer and fine wine 
- I kick ass at karaoke
- I'm pretty fun and easygoing and I can take a joke generally
- If I had a beard it would be the prettiest beard of them all

Ok maybe that last one isn't super crucial. 

So when I designed my business cards I made half of them normal, and half of them with a mini resume on the back. That way I can point to things about me on paper like a resume, but it won't be a pain in the ass to carry around and give to people. And it'll link to my online resume if people want to learn more. 

Here's the design I ended up going with:

Although I thought about getting stickers. Great conversation starter, amirite? 

And I loved these classy-ass square business cards but they didn't serve the purpose I was going for. 

I ended up leaving a space for notes. Then I can write down for people why they thought I was awesome. Or my real phone number instead of my Google voice number. Or some other tidbit of information about my skills or experience. 

Before I thought of the notes thing combined with the mini resume, I was trying to write what was essentially shitty cover letter copy at the bottom.

>"Reach out if you're looking for a dedicated developer to add to your team."

Yeah, no. So tacky. This is exactly what you're not supposed to do. 

The bullets on my resume can be condensed down to a few lines on the back of a business card, but the details about my situation and my goals are a topic best left for spoken conversation. Like I said before, the business card isn't a replacement for meeting people in person. It's a souvenir. 

The next step is to refine my elevator pitch a bit. By “elevator pitch” I don't mean an over-rehearsed monologue rehashing the details of my resume. I can do better than that, and to be honest I'm much more likely to monologue when I'm unprepared.

The idea is to have a few points and key questions in mind when I approach people. This way I can quickly identify myself as a developer and move on to the meat of the conversation. 

###Topics

- Technologies 
- Process/SDLC, best practices
- Product/service and market, why the company was founded
- Culture and team dynamics
- Gaps in their team they need filled

I might switch the order around.

Wow I really made it all the way through this post. I should probably go to bed now since I'm waking up in six hours. 