---
layout: post
title: Unease
category: health
date: 2015-04-05 17:00:00
---

Wish I could blog in the shower. So many thoughts.

I've been listening to the audiobook [<i class="fa fa-book"></i> *How Remarkable Women Lead*](http://www.amazon.com/How-Remarkable-Women-Lead-Breakthrough-ebook/dp/B002PYFWAW/ref=tmm_kin_swatch_0?_encoding=UTF8&sr=8-1&qid=1428280988) and I'm encountering a theme that really speaks to me. People who don't like themselves can't lead.

And it hit me, again. I fundamentally dislike myself.

I think it's absolutely possible to be vain or narcissistic while disliking oneself. Actually the damaging kind of narcissism you hear about probably stems from a kind of self-hate much worse than my own. That's outside the scope of what I'm trying to say here.

Unease. That's the feeling. Occasionally it graduates to anxiety, especially when I think about all the skills I want to learn in the next year or so. I'm going to further discuss the plans I have to lessen that anxiety in another post, probably right after this one. I don't think that's the main issue.

Something inside of me is unbalanced.

##Disorder

Exercise does make me happier. It raises my base mood level in the short-term. I think diet would have a bigger impact though.

I remember last year in the spring when I switched to a strict low-carb diet and finally broke my sugar addiction. I felt good all the time. I know part of it was the gorgeous weather and part of it was looking better than I had since college, but I think my diet played a major role in lifting my spirits.

Lately my heart has been racing inexplicably at random times. Until now it hadn't been a problem since I started taking l-theanine back in October to counteract the anxiety I get from drinking caffeine. Before I started taking the l-theanine I'd have to go running after work to chill out. It sucks having more crazy pills to take every day, but I know I'm not going to function without caffeine. That's out of the question.

I wonder if this new heart issue has something to do with my diet lately.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Three pints of ice cream plus a triple-chocolate drumstick. 18 hours. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/BingeEatingDisorder?src=hash">#BingeEatingDisorder</a></p>&mdash; yblehS (@speesbag) <a href="https://twitter.com/speesbag/status/584875749556920320">April 6, 2015</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Binge eating disorder is real. It's not something to laugh at. Sure, it's safe for you to get behind the wheel of a car after hitting three different drive-thrus, but it's still a kind of self-destructive coping mechanism that needs to be taken seriously.

Soon I believe we'll all be eliminating excess sugar from our diets. People say that sitting is going to be the smoking of the 21st century, but I'm pretty sure it's going to be sugar.

I can't even think straight. Typing is harder than it should be. It's not an effect like alcohol or drugs, but I can definitely tell that the truckload of sugar I consumed today is taking its toll. My hands are shaking. I'm dizzy.

I wish I could bring myself to throw it up but I can't. I can't throw up on command. That's probably for the best anyway.

Here's an implementation intention I can finally use:

**IF** I feel like eating ice cream,  
**THEN** I will meditate for five minutes.

In retrospect, my eating disorder could have manifested as something else entirely. Something a lot worse. If I had gotten into drugs in high school or college, I know I would have fallen quickly. As weak as I am, I would not have been able to pull myself together.

I'm lucky I knew myself well enough to stay away from that shit. For that I am thankful.