---
layout: post
title: "It's May"
category: musings
---

Holding my breath. Fingers crossed. I really want a good internship this summer.

I want to just work as a developer full-time and pay for school out of pocket taking one class a quarter. I'm paying per unit so I'm probably better off doing it that way.

I'm tired of being a drain on society. I want to work. I want to contribute. School's important, but it's not practical. I want hands-on experience.

I wish I could have gotten this done back when I had motivation to do well in school. I really don't anymore. It sounds terrible, but it's hard for me to care about assignments that are so insulated from the real world.

I only care about stuff when there are consequences at stake. I want to make customers happy, I want to make users' lives easier. Learning for the sake of doing well in school hasn't been able to keep me engaged for years at this point. 

School is so arbitrary. All of it is so arbitrary. It only has meaning when there are people there to give it meaning.

On the one hand I tell myself, "How can I think I'll do a good job in my career if I can't do some stupid school assignments?"

On the other hand, I've already experienced that. When I'm on a team I care about, working on a project that matters, I do what it takes. Being in a professional environment is inherently motivating for me. When I'm in an environment where people are trying to build me up (and not trying to break me down), I'll go above and beyond. I've done it plenty of times before.

I'm going to be a great developer one day. It's going to be a hell of a ride until I get there.