---
layout: post
title: GTFO
category: travel
---

Last week Misha and I were talking about travel and we decided to take a trip to Paris together for a week in the spring. She's never been out of the country and I've had the wanderlust itch for over a year now so I think it'll be a good opportunity for both of us. I'll be acting as travel agent/tour guide/translator.

Obviously I've made a lot of headway on my packing list. We're planning to go the last week of March because it's her spring break and my first week of spring quarter, and at that time Paris temperatures hover around 9°C. That's pretty cold but not unbearable with a good coat. It stayed in the single-digits during most of winter when I was in Tokyo and I liked it a lot.
  
It'll be a lot rainier in Paris though.

---

Here's my list so far:

Footwear

- grey Troopa boots
- brown chelsea boots
- running shoes?
- grey leg warmers
- black leg warmers
- 4x(+) calf heattech socks
- 2x knee high heattech socks 
- more socks

Outerwear

- black wool coat
- green athletic jacket

Legwear

- 3x(+) leggings pants
- 3x(+) leggings, fleece lined?

Tops

- grey F21 men's sweatshirt
- 2x men's v-neck sweaters
- 3x men's thermal l/s shirts
- 5x tank tops
- 3x t-shirts

Underwear

- 12+ pairs of underwear
- 2x sports bras

Accessories

- 5x regular scarfs
- heavy plaid scarf
- tan shawl scarf
- wrist warmers
- brown visor beanie
- headbands
- hair bands

Electronics

- tablet + charger
- tablet keyboard
- phone + charger
- Kindle
- extension cord
- portable battery charger
- portable wifi rental + extra battery + charger
- noise-canceling headphones? or bluetooth headphones? for flight

Toiletries

- Clarisonic
- face wash
- face lotion
- tinted moisturizer
- concealer
- powder?
- mascara
- eyebrow pencil + brush
- makeup remover
- toothbrush
- toothpaste
- floss
- deodorant
- bar soap
- Salux cloth
- mini flat iron?
- allergy meds, etc.

Bags

- Timbuk2 carry-on suitcase
- brown backpack
- zippered shoulder bag
- clear toiletries bag
- packing cubes
- laundry bag

Miscellaneous

- neck pillow

If I wear my Troopa boots, grey sweatshirt, and black coat on the plane then I should be able to fit everything else in my suitcase to carry on. I'll throw my electronics and layers in my backpack for the flight but everything I need for touristing will fit in my shoulder bag.