---
layout: post
title: Grown-up
category: career
---

I've been so productive on one of my projects this week. It feels really good. I hope I have a breakthrough on my other project soon.

I think I'm learning more about how my brain works. Summer school was always more fun for me, and I think it's because I have trouble switching contexts. Four hours a day, five days a week of the same subject is a lot easier for me than fifty minutes of difficult math problems, fifty minutes of difficult English analysis, fifty minutes of history lecture, fifty minutes of French grammar.

Another thing I noticed these past few days is that I've been thinking a lot about high school. Maybe it's because that was the last time I felt this way. Challenged but productive. Healthy stress because I my work has an impact. Plus this company is very... institutional? Bureaucracy, cafeteria, buildings from the 1960s. So that's very familiar.

I'm a little concerned about what projects I'll have starting like, next Thursday. It's the new fiscal year so budgets are all over the place. This is probably pretty normal at a lot of companies but it's interesting to see some mild scrambling to get things organized before the end of the month.

I guess I'm lucky I started when I did. I got to get comfortable with the company all summer as an intern, and now that I have my bearings I get to see a sort of crunch-time. When September comes around next year I'll know exactly what to expect.

Though in the back of my mind I'm dreaming of going to Europe for pretty much all of September next year. I'd get back the week school starts. If I bring it up within the next few months I can ask around and see how badly it would be frowned upon.

I wish I could travel now--the Euro is so low! But I just moved into a new apartment and bought a bunch of furniture.

My apartment is amazing actually. It's so great to have space and time and have absolutely nobody to worry about bothering or being bothered by. I finally reorganized my dressers last night before ironing my pillow shams along with some clothes. Ironing is kind of therapeutic. My brain can just pause for a bit while I focus on making something smooth and beautiful.

It feels so natural to be in my own space.

I'm thinking of throwing a Halloween party. Like a masked ball/cocktail party with a mask contest. Whoever has the best mask gets a prize of some sort. Probably Starbucks gift cards.
  
Damn I just remembered had a dream where I found a bunch of Starbucks gift cards in some pile of old papers or something. Why did that have to be a dream?

Speaking of Starbucks, I went there on Monday? Tuesday? (how can the days be blurring together so much already?) and I got my birthday drink: a grande pumpkin spice frappuccino (no whip of course), which I'd never order normally. Drove back to work trying not to finish it all in one gulp so that I could enjoy it back at my desk. Park and get out of the car and immediately drop it on the ground. What.
  
It was so sad. I mean, it was probably my body telling me I already had enough caffeine that day. But so sad.

What else is exciting... Oh yeah, I met with this financial advisor and he gave me the most amazing explanation of what investment funds are about. It included stick figures and everything!

Basically there are two types of mutual funds: actively managed funds and index funds. The index is the entire group of companies in a certain category, like the S&P 500 is the 500 biggest companies. There are other ones for mid-size companies, small companies, foreign companies. So an index fund just invests in all the companies in that category.

An actively managed fund is when you pay a banker guy to buy and sell shares for you based on their research about the market.

Apparently Vanguard invented and popularized index funds. At first nobody thought the index would do better than funds that were actively managed. But making bets on the future success of companies based on historical data is like betting that your next coin flip is going to be heads because your last three were heads. That's essentially what trying to outsmart the market is like.

Also, since you're not paying some banker guy to go around researching these companies--because you're investing in all of them--index funds are cheaper for the investor. An active fund would have like a 0.75% fee and an index fund would have like 0.1%. That ends up making a big difference in your earnings over time.

Obviously, if the active funds did significantly better than the passive index funds did, you'd be happy paying extra. But active funds never beat the index over time. When you're putting your money in and waiting five, ten, twenty, (or, like me) forty years to take it out, you want to best return over time.

So I opened an index fund through work. I think I also get the benefit of it being pre-tax money? So that's neat.

I asked the advisor how much I should put in. Everywhere I read said about 15% of your income was good, but I thought that was way too much. I mean, I might not even live that long. 

He said that starting to invest at my age meant that I'll be set even if I make the worst possible investments, so I can start with 5% and bump it up a percent every time I get a raise.  

I think my company matches up to 8%? Which is pretty sweet. Free money basically. Plus they're already putting money into my other retirement account. I don't really understand what that one is but I have like $50 in it so that's exciting. Net worth!

Wow! Look at me! I'm a grown-up! I have an apartment and a car payment and an index fund!

[Cue April Ludgate hating adult things.]