---
layout: post
title: Honesty
category: personal
---

I've been having some interesting conversations lately. Getting to know someone new and their little quirks. It helps that this person is very likable. 

And it blows me away that I can just be completely honest about my thoughts and feelings. I mean, I've had this in part with some of my friends, but I've never had it to the level that I have it right now.

We've agreed to just blurt it out when things bother us. We're not going to get mad or melodramatic. It's normal and human. We're both fuckin weird crazy people. We have flaws. We're gonna clash sometimes. But if we discuss these little clashes before they cause resentment, well, things will go a lot more smoothly in the long(er) run.

Another thing is that I'm paranoid of jinxing this. I'm really happy. I haven't been this happy and open and chill with someone in a long time. Possibly ever. We actually have conversations. With words. That form sentences.

Is it sad how novel the idea of conversation is to me?

I felt kind of bad at first, like I was being really demanding. I want to hear elaboration. Details. Even if it's hard to say. But after trying out the honesty thing for a couple weeks, I feel like it's been so much more helpful than keeping thoughts locked away. It's clean and cathartic and nice. Just a clean slate. No resentment, no drama. For me that's worth the occasional uncomfortable moment. Maintaining this chillness is worth being a little demanding and annoying sometimes. Because hopefully I'll hear about it when it gets to be too much, at which point I'll re-evaluate.

To reference a metaphor from *[The 7 Habits](http://smile.amazon.com/Habits-Highly-Effective-People-Anniversary-ebook/dp/B00GOZV3TM/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1424664038&sr=8-1&keywords=7+habits)*, flying a plane involves thousands of tiny course corrections along the way. You don't just set it and forget it. You have to constantly monitor the situation and adjust for changes. And things always change.

The book was referring to living one's values, but I think it applies to so many things in life. I mean, I guess this is just a specific application of those values. I value honesty and openness. In order to live by that value I'm going to have to be a bit demanding so that I'll know what course corrections to make. And then I--we can continue in the right direction, rather than ignorantly marching off on a tangent to my desired course.

Yeah, I love my metaphors.

Please oh please don't jinx this. I just want to be chill and happy. Not like happily ever after or anything. Just like, you know. Nice.

(I never claimed to be a good writer.)