---
layout: post
title: Rails on Wine
category: programming
---

I've been dying to try out Rails for months now. Basically since December.

Earlier in the year I tried reading through the [Ruby on Rails Tutorial](https://www.railstutorial.org/book). It didn't click right away. I wasn't quite yet comfortable with manipulating the various layers of the application.

What I needed was to fight with a large application a lot more. My internship this summer is providing many opportunities for that. I'll discuss my experiences with ANTLR 4 and StringTemplate 4 in [my ongoing post for that topic](), but suffice it to say that what documentation I do have is a lot to swallow.

In comparison, this Rails stuff is a walk in the park---although by writing that I probably just jinxed myself. Rails will now become the most difficult technology I'll ever have the displeasure of working with. But let's stay positive here.

##Wined enough to code

I just finished house/pet-sitting for my best friend Becca's family and I hadn't had a chance to see them since they returned on Thursday. It is now Saturday.

We had a lovely day that involved [giant açai bowls]() and window-shopping at Crate & Barrel. [I laughed like crazy, more than I had in a while.]() I love this family.

I ended up staying for dinner. Like clockwork, Becca's mom asks if I want wine. I don't say no to their wine. I've never had bad wine with this family.

We eat and joke and about three glasses in I slump down on the couch and open my laptop.

After a few minutes clicking around, I google "learn rails" and start opening up tabs. Some are familiar, others are new. I have enough wine in me that everything seems new. I settle on [this website](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html).

I guess with delicious, expensive [Santa Barbara County wine](http://www.longoriawine.com/) comes patience. Sober me wants to skim past the step-by-step tutorial and just *learn it, already*. Me with four glasses of wine thinks, "Well I can't figure out this next part until I read what everything says before it." 

I read each step once, twice, three times. That's about when it clicks that I should actually try to type in the commands this tutorial is suggesting. And what happens when I do take their advice? Yep, you guessed it, the app starts being built the way it's supposed to be! And I learn snippets of Rails architecture in the process.

This is the farthest I've ever gotten in a Rails tutorial. It's not that I don't have the patience. Ok, yes it is. But that's because I've always been able to figure things out without reading the directions. I'm a Spees. We don't read directions. We bang things together until they stick.

What's funny is that I'm totally cool with reading. I like reading. But I don't like reading step-by-step tutorials. Which is ridiculous because I also hate the fake video game walkthroughs like you see on Codecademy and Code School. Code School even has a [Rails for Zombies](http://railsforzombies.org/) tutorial. I guess I find it patronizing? I'm ridiculous.

