---
layout: post
title: Writing
category:
---

June 26th, 2015. A good day for equality. 

The fight isn't over but we've won an important battle and finally caught up to some of the first world countries we ought to emulate.

I actually told myself years ago when Prop 8 passed in California that I wouldn't get married until we had marriage equality in all fifty states. I honestly thought it wouldn't happen until I was much older. It's weird to me now that marriage is actually on the table.

Since I've been living under a rock these past few months the SCOTUS ruling came as a surprise this morning. It was awesome though. Hell yeah, 14th amendment.

<br>

Anyway, the point of this post is to muse a bit about some ideas that have been popping into my head lately.

Having read some of the fiction out there and seen some of the stories that get made into Hollywood features, I know that there's a lot of crap writing in this world. Never before have I thought to throw my hat into the ring.

Blogging is different. It's like journaling, but I can send links for my friends to read. I just write down my thoughts and edit a bit as I go along. Maybe a bit more after I post. It's not supposed to be a composition.

Fiction writing always felt like much more of a process. You have to have ideas and characters and a plot in mind. I didn't have anything like that.

But in reality (lol), fiction writing is a lot more accessible than I made it out to be. The best stories are human stories. Stories that you can live in. Stores that you remember.

The ideas come first. Musical prose comes later. That's why I want to start writing snippets as a hobby. It'll be a nice break from the technical braining I have to do all day.

What's also nice is that I get to leverage my love of language and research the crap out of whatever story idea I have in mind. Since I'm doing this for myself, I can write however I want. But since I'm me, it's not going to be painful to read. Plus I know I'll continue improving as I go along.

So that's the conclusion I came to today. Time to set up my new fiction blog. I think I'm gonna call it "wroutlet." Like "writing" + "outlet."

Ok yeah maybe something else. I'm a work in progress, ok?