---
layout: post
title: Awesome Hiring Process
category: career
---

I've been reading [this reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/comments/3i23iv/i_dont_remember_how_to_balance_a_damn_binary/) on [/r/cscareerquestions](https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions) and I came across a comment thread where one reddit user discusses their company's very unique hiring process.

The user is [miyakohouou](https://www.reddit.com/user/miyakohouou) and I'm going to quote their comments here with links to the original.

>I do a lot of interviewing for our team and developed most of our interview process. Typically in-person or during the first phone interview we ask a lot of questions in the form of "what can you tell me about X?" and just keep digging until the candidate bottoms out on what they can come up with off the top of their head, we do this for various areas of CS, systems, etc. It gives us a general map of where their interests, strengths, and weaknesses are across the field of things we care about without putting them on the spot. After that we'll send them home with a project we want them to do that usually requires some algorithmic thinking and implementation (we give people a weekend but generally try to keep the problem to something our junior devs can do in about 4 to 6 hours; we also require the candidate to publish their answer on github under their choice of OSI license so that even if we don't hire them we've at least hopefully helped them add to a public portfolio). Our final interview is a code review where we ask them what challenges they had, how they approached the problem, and see how they react to having their code critiqued.
>
>This seems to work out well because having detailed knowledge of all the data structures and algorithms is useless, but it's very valuable to have someone who at least has enough pointers in their brain to be able to figure out what they need to reference and how to start solving a problem.
>
>[(Link.)](https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/comments/3i23iv/i_dont_remember_how_to_balance_a_damn_binary/cucqkiv)

On the topic of candidates copying answers on GitHub:

>We change it a bit between rounds of candidates mostly just based on what we're seeing in terms of our interviews to try to hone in on a better question, but we don't really worry about people copying a solution.
>
>Originally other people on the team wanted to try to keep the question secret and ask people not to publish their solution, but I thought that A: cheaters are going to cheat anyway, and B: If we are asking a candidate to put in a substantial time investment into solving a problem in the hopes of getting a job, <mark>I want to make sure that even if we pass on that candidate that they still have something to show for the effort,</mark> to me it's a matter of fairness, the candidate doesn't owe us anything so the work should be mutually beneficial.
>
>Since we spend an entire interview session (20 minutes to an hour depending how the solution presented, the candidate, etc.) doing a code review it will be very clear if the person doesn't understand what they wrote, or if they just tweaked an already published solution. We ask about the algorithm they used, why they picked it, look at corner cases, look for various bugs and security vulnerabilities, etc. Someone who just copied a solution off github without groking it isn't going to be able to answer those questions well, and if they really did clone someones repo, change it around to look original, and take the time to grok it to a level where they can spend half an hour discussing it in detail then they probably have really strong code analysis skills and might be a valuable addition to the team anyway.
>
>EDIT: I should also point out that we focus most of our hiring on entry and junior level (0-2 years of experience) candidates so our process has a few peculiarities since we are trying specifically to weed out people who have a lot of growth potential. Since we don't have the ability to pay as competitive of a salary as we like we try to focus on providing people an opportunity to learn a lot and get a ton of experience in the year or two they stay with us (although we actually have less turnover than you'd expect with that scenario since most people end up deciding that the environment is worth the lower salary for a while longer). <mark>Given that, we really focus on people who are going to push themselves to learn and grow as much as possible, and we want to extend those benefits to the interview process as well, so we take time to mentor all the candidates on the solution, the way the solution was presented, etc.</mark> I'm not sure the process would work as well for mid and senior level candidates, but so far it's been really successful for the types of candidates that we're wanting to hire.
>
>[(Link.)](https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/comments/3i23iv/i_dont_remember_how_to_balance_a_damn_binary/cucxpzw)

On the topic of companies having power over candidates:

>Thanks, I think the big thing for us is just remembering that during the entire process nobody is doing anyone any favors, but <mark>as the hiring party we are in the position of power and we have to make sure not to exploit that.</mark> My goal during the hiring process, and as the lead developer, is to make sure that we find people with the interests, and develop peoples talents in ways, that benefit the long-term direction that we want to take our product. I feel like if we can pick people who are interested in our domains and identify people that enjoy the type of work we need done then we can teach and grow people, make them get more than a salary out of their time, and we benefit too. I want to make people more valuable, because eventually they will move on, but if I'm doing my job right we'll find people with a lot of potential and get a lot of value out of them before they "catch up" to their realized potential and start looking for somewhere with better pay or new challenges.
>
>Ultimately I want to keep everyone on even footing, and look out for the professional (and personal) growth of everyone I work with, and that starts with the interview process. We can't take or feel entitled to people's time- <mark>their time is valuable and if they are being nice enough to give us some of it</mark> knowing that, statistically, they probably aren't going to get a job in return (we typically interview about 10 people for every opening, and have at least 2 or 3 people who would all have been perfectly qualified) so <mark>I want to make the interview process as valuable to them as it is to us.</mark> I also think interviews can and should be fun. I enjoy doing technical interviews as a candidate because I like getting a look into what other people are doing, how they are organizing their teams and I like solving interesting problems. I hope that I can bring a little bit of that in a low pressure environment to the people who are being gracious enough to give us their time.
>
>[(Link.)](https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/comments/3i23iv/i_dont_remember_how_to_balance_a_damn_binary/cud74az)

I'm very impressed by this approach and I think it's especially beneficial for candidates to be able to put their code on GitHub. It's an effective way to test their skills while giving them valuable content to add to their portfolios.

By asking candidates to explain their reasoning in a code review the interviewer learns a lot about the candidates problem-solving skills, communication skills, and general thinking style. Code reviews are the fastest way to learn about a candidates thought process and skills, and in this case the project will be fresh on the candidate's mind.

I hope more companies take this approach in the future. As big of a pain it is to work on a project while in a job search, the value of taking on a new project and adding it to your portfolio very likely outweighs the time commitment.