---
layout: post
title: Winter 2015
category: musings
---

I shouldn't say it. I shouldn't jinx it.

I think I'm having a good quarter so far. 

My internship is amazing. Every day I'm becoming more confident in my programming skills. I'm learning so much about the business of software. I'm friends with my coworkers. 

My classes aren't freaking me out quite as much. Let's see how I do grades-wise, though. 

I've been doing yoga. I've been going to the gym a bit. I've been hydrating. And of course it's easy to avoid cake and ice cream and other crap when it's not the holidays. 

Unfortunately I'm sick. I don't think it's contagious. I'm just extremely sensitive to airborne substances. If I were in Japan I'd totally wear a mask to work tomorrow. And it's a good thing I'm not serving. 

Speaking of which, yeah I can't anymore. I love serving and I'm great at it and I love my coworkers and customers, but I can't handle it. Not with school and an internship. I'm already drained by the time I show up for my shift. 

I'm just not that tough. I'm never gonna be one of those two-jobs-80-hours-a-week-plus-school people. I've been on the verge of burn out enough times, and my past emotional breakdowns have made me learn my lesson. If I spread myself too thin, I can't do any good. Nobody is going to be happy. 

And that's something I realized last quarter, among all the shit that kept arising in my head. My impact in this world is tiny. It's inconsequential. I'm never going to be able to end the pain and hunger and abuse and sorrow in this world. 

But I still have an impact. And it's generally a positive one for the people I touch. What if I can refine and strengthen that impact so that I consistently leave people better off than how I found them? That tiny positive influence can snowball into something greater. Or it won't, but I'll still be happy. 

So that's what I'm focusing on. 