---
layout: post
title: Outbrief
category: career
---

I'm coming up on the end of my summer internship. One of the things interns in my division are expected to do is to perform a presentation called an *outbrief* in front of the higher ups in their department or subdivision.

Luckily my manager warned me about it on my first day. I've had ideas mulling around in the back of my head this entire summer so it's not like I'll run out of things to say. On the contrary, I have to take extra care that I don't ramble.

Plus since I'll be presenting for technical managers I have to be very careful not to waste their time. Sigh. Writing about it isn't going to make my presentation better though.

There is one thing I'd like to vent about though. And I mean vent in the most loving way. These projects I've been working on--they've been so much more complicated than I could have ever anticipated. I knew I'd be interacting with large, complex software systems, but going into this internship I thought I'd be doing maintenance and fixing bugs. Writing such software from scratch was nowhere on my radar.

Oh, what a learning experience. I'll go through a list of the technologies I've been exposed to through the work I've been doing this summer:

### Project I:

- Java
- ANTLR 4
- StringTemplate 4
- programming language theory
- Eclipse IDE
- Git: branches, cloning, merging
- Redmine: project management, code history

### Project II:

- Python 2.7
- Python 3.4
- pywin32
- Microsoft Excel macros
- Visual Basic for Applications
- Git
- PyInstaller

### Other Skills:

- Gathering requirements
- Research, research, research
- Designing a large system
- Debugging
- Refactoring
- Writing documentation
- Asking questions
- Project management

That's in just nine weeks. I started June 8th and it is now August 11th. It's insane to think about it.

So Project I is to translate this legacy code into modern idiomatic C++. Of course, it wouldn't be too hard for a human to do it. Humans are great at translation. Writing a program to do this is the hard part.

There are several steps to translating one programming language into another very different one. I'll try to explain how we're doing it with the tools we're using on this project.

# UPDATE

I gave my presentation yesterday and I think I can confidently say it was a success. I've never prepared that much for any presentation ever in my life. Afterwards one of the senior engineers in the subdivision (and probably in the company) gave me some good advice:

>You're only as good as your last briefing.

Damn. Definitely gotta keep that in mind so I don't get cocky if I'm going to be doing similar things in the future.

Luckily I have way too much practice talking at people, plus I think breaking down English grammar to make it really clear for my students in Tokyo was good preparation for this kind of high-level explanation. It's easy to get lost in the details when you've been living in them for several months.

It definitely helped that I know what I'm talking about and I like the projects I'm on, plus the people who were there are actually interested in what I'm doing. Wayyy different from the pointless presentations I was relentlessly assigned throughout high school and college. This time I actually did the work.

Another thing was really interesting, especially this past week. It might not be true at other companies, but I was really impressed with the amount of support and advice I got going into this presentation. People from all over the subdivision were going out of their way to help me.

I've given presentations where I broke down in tears back in 8th grade English and 9th grade English and 11th grade English as well as plenty of other times in auditions, one-on-one talks with teachers/counselors, and once during an AP exam (also English). I never felt the kind of support and protection that I felt this past week from higher ups in the organization. 

Even before I finalized my slides I was getting tons of positive feedback, and busy engineers who have experience briefing super important people in the past were taking time out of their busy schedules to help me. And it's not like I was coming across like I needed a lot of help. It was kind of a feedback loop of people wanting to see me do a good job, and then asking people for help so I could do a good job, and them wanting even more to see me do a good job. I think I'm ok with that.

And I actually had fun. Only one real slip up, and my nitpicky coworker only said "Good save" when I brought it up. So smooth, right? Threw in some jokes. Let's hope I can keep this up. I want to be liked, I want to do a good job.

I think I might be somewhat over my imposter syndrome. If engineers with a lifetime of experience are telling me I'm doing a good job, maybe I should listen to them.

Man, am I glad I went back to school. This is exactly what I was hoping for. I just need to do well in my classes so I can frickin graduate already.

Plus I think being immersed in so many technologies this summer made me feel really confident that I can learn a new technology stack if I need to bounce to another company at some point.

Wish I could have recorded the presentation. My parents would have liked to see it, lol.
